---
layout: post
title: You're up and running!
---

## GITHUB


Every programmer is always mentioning all these github vocabularies. These may include git, commit, fork, repository and the like.


### So what is github anyway?


Well, in a nut shell, Github is mainly termed as a publishing, version control and a collaborating tool
Github is a web-based platform that allows you to host remote Git repositories and has services that make it ideal for open source projects.
It is a cloud-based Git service.

###The “Git” 
Git is a popular open source version control system. Version control is a system that records changes to a file or set of files overtime so that you can recall specific versions later.
This enables developers to easily collaborate.
Git is mostly preffered as it has some advantages over most version control systems which include storing file changes and ensuring **integrity**.


###The “Hub” 
If Git is a version controlling system, just a command-line tool, then what makes github so special?
The git is just a command-line tool but the center around which all things revolve is github.com, the **hub**, where developers can store their projects and network with likeminded people.

##Features of Github
The main feautures of github include:

* Repository
* Forking a Repo
* Pull Request
* Merge
* Social Networking

A **repository** is simply a place where the history of your work is stored. It often lives in a **.git** subdirectory of your working copy - a copy of the most recent state of the files you're working on. It's often abbreviated to 'repo'.

The main functionality of Github is **“forking a repo”** - copying a repository in one account to another. This allows the 'forker' to have access to a project that they don't have write access to and modify it however they want under their own account.

If you make changes and you'd like to share them to the repository you forked, you can send a **“pull request”** to the original owner.

The original owner can then, **“merge”** the changes found in the forked repo with the original repo.

The **social networking** aspect of GitHub is probably its most powerful feature, and is what allows projects to grow more than anything else. Each user on GitHub has their own profile, which can act like a resume of sorts, showing your past work and contributions to other projects via pull requests.

These features -**fork**,**pull request**, **merge** and **social networking** are generally what make Github so powerful.


##Github isn’t just for developers
Well, all this talk of how github is ideal for every programmer may have you thinking that github is just for them. This is not true.

Github can actually be used for any type of projects. If you have a team working on a particular project and you make regular changes to the files, you can actually use Github as your version control system. This is not common, but then again, why not!

